INT-3045: Add in & out ZeroMq channel adapters (#3388)
spring-projects/spring-integration: src/reference/asciidoc/zeromq.adoc

}
----
====

[[zeromq-inbound-channel-adapter]]
=== ZeroMq Inbound Channel Adapter

The `ZeroMqMessageProducer` is a `MessageProducerSupport` implementation with reactive semantics.

> It constantly reads the data from a ZeroMq socket in no-blocking manner and produces it as an infinite `Flux` which is subscribed by the `FluxMessageChannel` or explicitly in the `start()` if output channel is not reactive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It constantly reads the data from a ZeroMq socket in a non-blocking manner and publishes the messages to an infinite `Flux` which is subscribed to by a `FluxMessageChannel` or explicitly in the `start()` method, if the output channel is not reactive.
```

> When no data on the socket, a `consumeDelay` (defaults to 1 second) is applied before the next read attempt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When no data are received on the socket, a `consumeDelay` (defaults to 1 second) is applied before the next read attempt.

```

Only `SocketType.PAIR`, `SocketType.PULL` and `SocketType.SUB` are supported by the `ZeroMqMessageProducer`.
This component can connect to the remote socket or bind onto TCP protocol with the provided or random port.
The actual port can be obtained via `getBoundPort()` after this component is started and ZeroMq socket is bound.
The socket options (e.g. security or write timeout) can be configured via `setSocketConfigurer(Consumer<ZMQ.Socket> socketConfigurer)` callback.

> If `receiveRaw` option is set to `true`, a `ZMsg`, consumed from the socket, is sent as is in the payload of the produced `Message`: it's up to downstream flow to parse and convert `ZMsg` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `receiveRaw` option is set to `true`, a `ZMsg`, consumed from the socket, is sent as is in the payload of the produced `Message`: it's up to the downstream flow to parse and convert  the`ZMsg`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If the `receiveRaw` option is set to `true`, a `ZMsg`, consumed from the socket, is sent as is in the payload of the produced `Message`: it's up to the downstream flow to parse and convert  the `ZMsg`.
```

> Otherwise an `InboundMessageMapper` is used to convert consumed data into a `Message`.
> If received `ZMsg` is multi-frame, the first one is treated as a `ZeroMqHeaders.TOPIC` header this ZeroMq message was published to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise an `InboundMessageMapper` is used to convert the consumed data into a `Message`.
If the received `ZMsg` is multi-frame, the first frame is treated as the `ZeroMqHeaders.TOPIC` header this ZeroMq message was published to.
```

> With the `SocketType.SUB` the `ZeroMqMessageProducer` uses provided `topics` option for subscriptions; defaults to subscribe to all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `SocketType.SUB`, the `ZeroMqMessageProducer` uses the provided `topics` option for subscriptions; defaults to subscribe to all.
```

Subscriptions can be adjusted at runtime using `subscribeToTopics()` and `unsubscribeFromTopics()` `@ManagedOperation` s.

Here is a sample of `ZeroMqMessageProducer` configuration:

====
[source,java]
----
@Bean
ZeroMqMessageProducer zeroMqMessageProducer(ZContext context, MessageChannel outputChannel) {
    ZeroMqMessageProducer messageProducer = new ZeroMqMessageProducer(context, SocketType.SUB);
    messageProducer.setOutputChannel(outputChannel);
    messageProducer.setTopics("some");
    messageProducer.setReceiveRaw(true);
    messageProducer.setBindPort(7070);
    messageProducer.setConsumeDelay(Duration.ofMillis(100));
    return messageProducer;
}
----
====

[[zeromq-outbound-channel-adapter]]
=== ZeroMq Outbound Channel Adapter

The `ZeroMqMessageHandler` is a `ReactiveMessageHandler` implementation to produce publish messages into a ZeroMq socket.
Only `SocketType.PAIR`, `SocketType.PUSH` and `SocketType.PUB` are supported.

> The `ZeroMqMessageHandler` utilizes only connecting (no binding) ZeroMq socket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ZeroMqMessageHandler` only supports connecting the ZeroMq socket; binding is not supported.
```

When the `SocketType.PUB` is used, the `topicExpression` is evaluated against a request message to inject a topic frame into a ZeroMq message if it is not null.
The subscriber side (`SocketType.SUB`) must receive the topic frame first before parsing the actual data.

> When the payload of the request message is a `ZMsg`, no any conversion and topic extraction happen: the `ZMsg` is sent into a socket as is and it is not destroyed for possible further reusing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the payload of the request message is a `ZMsg`, no conversion or topic extraction is performed: the `ZMsg` is sent into a socket as is and it is not destroyed for possible further reuse.
```
